Translating
-----------

If you want to translate The Legend of Edgar into another language, you will need to download the
source code as this has the "messages.po" file in it.

If you have used GNU Gettext then you should be quite familiar with the process. Unfortunately I don't
have any experience with it so I cannot offer any assistance.

To translate the scripts you will first need to change the name of the script file that it loads.
The script files live in data/scripts
Gettext can do this for you. Next you will need to translate the script commands. There are 6
commands that need their values translated:

TALK
REMOVE
HAS_ITEM
ADD ENTITY
ADD OBJECTIVE
ADD TRIGGER

e.g.

TALK Borgan Off to practice your fighting skills?

The second word appears in yellow and denotes the person who is talking. The rest of the line is
the actual dialog. If you have translated the names of the weapons and items, you will need to
translate their names in the Objective and Triggers otherwise some mission won't be completable.

REMOVE "Coal Bag" 10 -1 Borgan 3 4

This command will remove the item in quotes from the player's inventory. Don't remove the quotes otherwise
the game won't work.

HAS_ITEM "Chopped Log" 6 6 Raft_Point 2 8

This command checks for the existance of the quoted item. 

ADD ENTITY ITEM item/iron_key "Mine Entrance Door Key" 224 3000

The name in quotes denotes the name of the item, so change this too but don't remove the quotes. If
the quotes are empty (just a single space) then don't change it.

ADD OBJECTIVE "Collect 10 pieces of Coal" "Landslide Trigger"

The first quoted phrase is the objective name. The second is the trigger to fire. You don't need to
translate the name of the trigger since it's internal.

ADD TRIGGER "Coal" 10 UPDATE_OBJECTIVE "Collect 10 pieces of Coal"

The first quoted phrase is the name of the item that updates the trigger. The second is the name
of the objective to update. You should translate both of these.

ADD TRIGGER "Access Key 1" 1 UPDATE_TRIGGER "Access Keys"

This trigger updates another trigger, so you only need to update the first quoted phrase.

If the game has any untranslatable strings then let me know.

Finally, just remember that while you are translating the game you might run into secrets or spoilers so
if you don't want your enjoyment of the game ruined then it may be best to leave the translating until later!

You can send the .po files to the address below

Richard Sweeney
richard.sweeney@parallelrealities.co.uk
http://www.parallelrealities.co.uk

(NB: This email address does not accept HTML formatted messages. Plain text only)
